docs/software/powershell.md, before:

# Software - PowerShell

|                             |                                                                                      |
| --------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Condement Software ID       | `powershell`                                                                         |
| Website                     | [docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/) |
| License                     | [MIT License](https://github.com/PowerShell/PowerShell/blob/master/LICENSE.txt)      |
| Maintainer                  | [Deosrc](https://github.com/deosrc)                                                  |
| Persistent Storage          | No                                                                                   |
| Other Software Dependencies | None                                                                                 |

## Description

![powershell logo](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/af/PowerShell_Core_6.0_icon.png/64px-PowerShell_Core_6.0_icon.png)

PowerShell is a task automation and configuration management framework from
Microsoft, consisting of a command-line shell and associated scripting
language.

Source: [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PowerShell)

## Install Notes

Installs the Microsoft GPG key from the official Microsoft package repository.

Installs PowerShell from the Ubuntu "Universe" repository.

## Limitations

None known.

Commit message:

Move Microsoft package repository to its own Condement package

docs/software/powershell.md, after:

# Software - PowerShell

|                             |                                                                                      |
| --------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Condement Software ID       | `powershell`                                                                         |
| Website                     | [docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/) |
| License                     | [MIT License](https://github.com/PowerShell/PowerShell/blob/master/LICENSE.txt)      |
| Maintainer                  | [Deosrc](https://github.com/deosrc)                                                  |
| Persistent Storage          | No                                                                                   |
| Other Software Dependencies | [Microsoft Package Repository](./microsoft-package-repository)                       |

## Description

![powershell logo](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/af/PowerShell_Core_6.0_icon.png/64px-PowerShell_Core_6.0_icon.png)

PowerShell is a task automation and configuration management framework from
Microsoft, consisting of a command-line shell and associated scripting
language.

Source: [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PowerShell)

## Install Notes

Installs PowerShell from the Ubuntu "Universe" repository.

The Condement software package for the Microsoft Package Repository is included automatically. There is no need to
specify it in the configuration file.

## Limitations

None known.
