docs/contributing/adding-software.md, before:

# Contributing - Adding a Software Install Package

## Requirements

In order for software to be included in Condement, it:

* Must have a free option.
  * Feature limited free tiers are fine
  * No time restricted trials (unless they then become feature limited
  free tiers).
* Must have an appropriate license.
  * Must allow automated installation
* Must have a public website and/or source code repository.

If you are contributing a software package, you must also be willing to
maintain it. Keeping all of the install packages working would be a big task
which I don't have time to do (I'm a one man team). If an issue is raised for
your install package, I'll tag you in the ticket. If you don't respond, I
reserve the right to remove the package to prevent it causing issues for more
users.

In terms of the implementation, you must create:

* An Ansible playbook with all of the necessary steps to install the software
* An entries in the relevant configuration files
* A documentation page

The steps to create these will be covered in the next sections.

This may all seem rather strict, but is in place to ensure Condement remains
useful, usable and does not infringe the terms of the licensed software it
uses.

## Selecting a Software ID

Before starting development, you should select a software ID for your package. It should be:

* The name of the software or an accepted common name (e.g. Visual Studio Code is often referred to as VSCode)
* Unique within Condement (check the [software folder](../../software) for existing software IDs)

Once you have selected a software ID, move to the next section.

## Creating the Ansible Playbook

1. Fork the repository and clone to your local machine
2. In the `software` folder, copy the `!template` folder. Set the name of the new folder to the software ID you selected.
3. Open the `playbook.yml` file within the folder and add Ansible tasks to install the required software.

## Testing the Install Package

### Testing Levels

The testing levels defined below are used to establish the amount of testing before submitting a software package.

| Testing Level | Desktop | Software Packages   |
| ------------- | ------- | ------------------- |
| Level 1       | All     | Required Only       |
| Level 2       | Xubuntu | Defaults            |
| Level 3       | Xubuntu | All non-conflicting |

#### Level 1

> Level 1 aims to ensure your software install package includes all of the necessary requirements to function correctly
> and does not cause unintended changes at an OS level.

You should use the [Level 1 testing configuration file](../../test/configurations/condement.level-1.yaml) and modify it
to install only your software. You will also need to enter the desktop for each test.
**Do not change the resources of the VM.** The software should run in a stable fashion with the configure resources
(minimum recommended).

If your software is headless (has no User Interface), you should first test with the desktop set as `"none"`. This will
ensure your software has the minimum dependencies.

Software should then be tested with each desktop environment. For each build, you should ensure that the build succeeds,
check for unintended actions such as new user accounts at the login screen and ensure the software is working as
expected.

#### Level 2

> Level 2 aims to ensure your software works as expected with the default and commonly used software configuration. It
> also checks persistent storage is working as expected (if included).

You should use the [Level 2 testing configuration file](../../test/configurations/condement.level-2.yaml) and modify it
to also install your software. **Do not change the resources of the VM.** The software should run in a stable fashion
with the configure resources (minimum recommended).

You should ensure that the build succeeds and check basic functionality of all of the software packages (including the
one you added).

#### Level 3

> Level 3 aims to avoid conflicts between software packages.

You should use the [Level 3 testing configuration file](../../test/configurations/condement.level-3.yaml) and modify it
to also install your software. For this test, feel free to increase the VM resources to decrease build time.

For this test, you only need to ensure that the build succeeds.

#### Further Testing

The testing levels outlined above are the minimum required for software submission. An additional testing carried out
can be specified in the Pull Request. This can include live testing such as "daily use for work".

## Adding Configuration File Entries

An entry to install your software package must be added in two files:

* `condement_sample.yaml`
  * This entry allows the software to be easily discovered by users.
  * The entry here should be commented out so that it is not installed by default. Default software requires more
    maintenance than other packages due to the larger user base so the decision to have software as default is reserved
    to the Condement team only.
* `test/configurations/condement.level-3.yaml`
  * This entry ensures your software is tested for compatibility when others are adding new software.

## Creating the Documentation Page

1. In the `docs/software` folder, copy the `!template.md` file and name it `<software-id>.md`.
2. Edit the file as per the instructions within the markdown comments. Keep to
   the headings where possible but if something doesn't fit, create a new section.
3. Commit the change.

## Advanced Features

### Persistent Storage

Persistent storage can be used to save configuration of the software so that it is preserved between rebuild of the
machine. An important note here is that this is for "configuration" and not for user files (e.g. documents).

Configuration of persistent storage has been simplified through the use of the `persistent-storage` Ansible role. This
accepts two variables:

| Variable                       | Example            | Description                                                                                    |
| ------------------------------ | ------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `persistent_storage.folder_id` | `user_home`        | An ID for the persistent storage folder. This must be unique only within the software package. |
| `persistent_storage.location`  | `/home/dev/.azure` | The location to mount the folder to within the VM.                                             |

The role also uses a third variable of `software_item` but this is populated internally by Condement and should not be
manually configured. Doing so may cause future compatibility issues.

Although you may only need to configure one persistent storage folder, it is recommended to use the following "loop"
pattern to make future additions easier:

```yaml
- name: Configure persistent storage
  with_items:
    - { folder_id: user_home, location: '/home/dev/.azure' }
  loop_control:
    loop_var: persistent_storage
  include_role:
    name: persistent-storage
```

The example above from the `azure-cli` software package will map the persistent storage folder
`/mnt/persistent_storage/azure-cli/user_home` to the `/home/dev/.azure` folder.

## Submitting the Install Package

TODO

Commit message:

Add documentation on using configuration variables for software packages

docs/contributing/adding-software.md, after:

# Contributing - Adding a Software Install Package

## Requirements

In order for software to be included in Condement, it:

* Must have a free option.
  * Feature limited free tiers are fine
  * No time restricted trials (unless they then become feature limited
  free tiers).
* Must have an appropriate license.
  * Must allow automated installation
* Must have a public website and/or source code repository.

If you are contributing a software package, you must also be willing to
maintain it. Keeping all of the install packages working would be a big task
which I don't have time to do (I'm a one man team). If an issue is raised for
your install package, I'll tag you in the ticket. If you don't respond, I
reserve the right to remove the package to prevent it causing issues for more
users.

In terms of the implementation, you must create:

* An Ansible playbook with all of the necessary steps to install the software
* An entries in the relevant configuration files
* A documentation page

The steps to create these will be covered in the next sections.

This may all seem rather strict, but is in place to ensure Condement remains
useful, usable and does not infringe the terms of the licensed software it
uses.

## Selecting a Software ID

Before starting development, you should select a software ID for your package. It should be:

* The name of the software or an accepted common name (e.g. Visual Studio Code is often referred to as VSCode)
* Unique within Condement (check the [software folder](../../software) for existing software IDs)

Once you have selected a software ID, move to the next section.

## Creating the Ansible Playbook

1. Fork the repository and clone to your local machine
2. In the `software` folder, copy the `!template` folder. Set the name of the new folder to the software ID you selected.
3. Open the `playbook.yml` file within the folder and add Ansible tasks to install the required software.

## Configuration Variables

For some software, it may be desirable for the user to install additional components or supply install arguments. A good
example of this is the [terraform package](../software/terraform.md) which allows a user to specify a specific version
to install, or the [vscode software package](../software/vscode.md) which allows a user to supply a list of
extensions to be installed.

Settings for an extension are created as yaml child objects of the software map (see
[software configuration documentation](../configuration/software.md)). These settings are automatically loaded into the
`software_item.value` variable and can be used as `"{{ software_item.value.version | default('1.6.0') }}"`.

## Testing the Install Package

### Testing Levels

The testing levels defined below are used to establish the amount of testing before submitting a software package.

| Testing Level | Desktop | Software Packages   |
| ------------- | ------- | ------------------- |
| Level 1       | All     | Required Only       |
| Level 2       | Xubuntu | Defaults            |
| Level 3       | Xubuntu | All non-conflicting |

#### Level 1

> Level 1 aims to ensure your software install package includes all of the necessary requirements to function correctly
> and does not cause unintended changes at an OS level.

You should use the [Level 1 testing configuration file](../../test/configurations/condement.level-1.yaml) and modify it
to install only your software. You will also need to enter the desktop for each test.
**Do not change the resources of the VM.** The software should run in a stable fashion with the configure resources
(minimum recommended).

If your software is headless (has no User Interface), you should first test with the desktop set as `"none"`. This will
ensure your software has the minimum dependencies.

Software should then be tested with each desktop environment. For each build, you should ensure that the build succeeds,
check for unintended actions such as new user accounts at the login screen and ensure the software is working as
expected.

#### Level 2

> Level 2 aims to ensure your software works as expected with the default and commonly used software configuration. It
> also checks persistent storage is working as expected (if included).

You should use the [Level 2 testing configuration file](../../test/configurations/condement.level-2.yaml) and modify it
to also install your software. **Do not change the resources of the VM.** The software should run in a stable fashion
with the configure resources (minimum recommended).

You should ensure that the build succeeds and check basic functionality of all of the software packages (including the
one you added).

#### Level 3

> Level 3 aims to avoid conflicts between software packages.

You should use the [Level 3 testing configuration file](../../test/configurations/condement.level-3.yaml) and modify it
to also install your software. For this test, feel free to increase the VM resources to decrease build time.

For this test, you only need to ensure that the build succeeds.

#### Further Testing

The testing levels outlined above are the minimum required for software submission. An additional testing carried out
can be specified in the Pull Request. This can include live testing such as "daily use for work".

## Adding Configuration File Entries

An entry to install your software package must be added in two files:

* `condement_sample.yaml`
  * This entry allows the software to be easily discovered by users.
  * The entry here should be commented out so that it is not installed by default. Default software requires more
    maintenance than other packages due to the larger user base so the decision to have software as default is reserved
    to the Condement team only.
* `test/configurations/condement.level-3.yaml`
  * This entry ensures your software is tested for compatibility when others are adding new software.

## Creating the Documentation Page

1. In the `docs/software` folder, copy the `!template.md` file and name it `<software-id>.md`.
2. Edit the file as per the instructions within the markdown comments. Keep to
   the headings where possible but if something doesn't fit, create a new section.
3. Commit the change.

## Advanced Features

### Persistent Storage

Persistent storage can be used to save configuration of the software so that it is preserved between rebuild of the
machine. An important note here is that this is for "configuration" and not for user files (e.g. documents).

Configuration of persistent storage has been simplified through the use of the `persistent-storage` Ansible role. This
accepts two variables:

| Variable                       | Example            | Description                                                                                    |
| ------------------------------ | ------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `persistent_storage.folder_id` | `user_home`        | An ID for the persistent storage folder. This must be unique only within the software package. |
| `persistent_storage.location`  | `/home/dev/.azure` | The location to mount the folder to within the VM.                                             |

The role also uses a third variable of `software_item` but this is populated internally by Condement and should not be
manually configured. Doing so may cause future compatibility issues.

Although you may only need to configure one persistent storage folder, it is recommended to use the following "loop"
pattern to make future additions easier:

```yaml
- name: Configure persistent storage
  with_items:
    - { folder_id: user_home, location: '/home/dev/.azure' }
  loop_control:
    loop_var: persistent_storage
  include_role:
    name: persistent-storage
```

The example above from the `azure-cli` software package will map the persistent storage folder
`/mnt/persistent_storage/azure-cli/user_home` to the `/home/dev/.azure` folder.

## Submitting the Install Package

TODO
